FACEID
======

INSTALLATION
1. Drag the FaceID icon onto the Applications folder next to it.
2. Open the Applications folder in Finder and launch FaceID.

IF macOS WON'T OPEN THE APP
The app is not notarized by Apple, so on first launch macOS may show a
warning ("cannot verify the developer" or "Apple cannot check it for
malicious software"). You need to allow it once.

  • On macOS 15 and later, close the warning with "Done", open System
    Settings → Privacy & Security, scroll down, click "Open Anyway" next
    to FaceID and confirm.

  • On macOS 14, right-click FaceID in Finder, choose "Open" and click
    "Open" again in the warning.

  • If that doesn't help, open Terminal and run:
        xattr -dr com.apple.quarantine /Applications/FaceID.app

SETUP
FaceID lives in the notch, like Face ID in the iPhone's Dynamic Island.
On a Mac without a notch it slides down from the top of the screen.
1. Click "Set Up FaceID", confirm with Touch ID or your password and
   allow camera access.
2. Move your head slowly in a circle until every tick around your face
   turns green. Click "Continue" and do the circle once more. Your face
   is saved by itself.
3. Enter your Mac password. FaceID keeps it in your keychain and types it
   on the lock screen when it recognizes you.
4. Click "Allow" and turn on FaceID in System Settings → Accessibility.
A green checkmark in the notch means you're done.

HOW TO USE
  • Unlocking. When the Mac is locked, touch the keyboard or trackpad or
    open the lid and look at the screen. The Mac unlocks and a green
    checkmark flashes in the notch.
  • The controls open with a click on the notch or on the FaceID icon in
    the menu bar. A green switch is on. Point at a switch to see what
    it does.
  • sudo. Turn on "sudo in Terminal" in the controls (macOS asks for an
    administrator password). If FaceID asks for Full Disk Access, turn
    on FaceID in System Settings → Privacy & Security → Full Disk
    Access. When you type sudo in Terminal, FaceID recognizes your face
    and the command runs right away. "Password" goes back to typing the
    password.
  • Auto-Lock. Turn it on in the controls and the Mac locks by itself
    when you're not in front of the camera. Choose how soon, from 15
    seconds to 5 minutes, under "More". Five seconds before, a countdown
    appears in the notch; moving the mouse cancels it.
  • Faces. Click "Faces" in the controls to add a second look (glasses,
    a beard) or another person, rename a face (click its name), record it
    again or delete it.

LIMITATIONS
The Mac's camera is an ordinary one, without the infrared light and depth
sensor of the iPhone. With "Blink" on, an ordinary photo won't fool
FaceID, but a video of you blinking might. Keep a strong password for
important data. After a restart, enter the password yourself.

REQUIREMENTS
macOS 14 or later and a Mac with a built-in camera. FaceID is fastest on
Macs with Apple Silicon.
